In this demo I will show you
how to add the web UI in kops.
In my vagrant/kubernetes-course my git repository
I have directory dashboard.
In this dashboard I have README that you can use
to start your dashboard on kops.
In earlier releases of kops it was pretty easy
to start a dashboard.
But in new releases they added RBAC by default.
So you have to also add a user to be able to log in.
To start our dashboard it's still the same,
although the (mumbles) is a little bit outdated,
but it's still a kubectl apply.
So I'm gonna do that first.
And this is going to create the dashboard.
Then I'm going to create a sample user.
This is a user that I'm going to add to the account.
It is a ServiceAccount and it's called admin-user
and this is a ClusterRoleBinding to bind to this user,
this admin-user, to bind a certain role.
And the role I'm going to add is cluster-admin.
So we're going to add a user, this will be admin-user
that will be able to do everything.
Going to create this new user.
This new user is created.
Now that this user is created I can retrieve a token.
So if I do kubectl in the kube-system namespace,
get secret, and I'm gonna grep,
I'm gonna filter on admin-user.
And I will see here an admin-user token
and then this random string.
And if I describe this secret,
then I can see the secret.
Using this token we can now log into the cluster
without using our certificates.
So by default, in kops we are using certificates
to log in.
Those certificates are configured here in kube/config.
So rather than using those certificates
I am going to use a token.
And then the last thing that we need is the password.
So we do kubectl config view
or we just open the editor and edit the config in.
Then we see the admin log in and password that we need
to log into the API server.
So we go in to log into the API server.
Enter admin and the password
and then use this token to log in.
So let's try that out.
So this the first log in,
I'm going to enter admin and my password
to log in as admin.
And now I am logged into the API server.
To access the UI I just type /ui.
And then I will be redirected to the UI,
to the Kubernetes Dashboard.
Two ways to log in, using Kubeconfig or using a token.
Even if you use Kubeconfig you still
need to have your token configured in the config
so it's easier to just copy paste this token here.
From here we can copy, paste the token
that we need to log into the dashboard.
Going to enter this token, click sign in,
and then I'm logged in to the dashboard.
Here you have an overview of what I am running right now
in my cluster.
So you can just go a little bit around.
Click on the links here to see
what is running on your cluster.
In the next demo I will show you the same with minikube
and then I will also go over some dashboard items.